---
permalink: api.html
title: The Collins API
layout: post
desc: RESTful interaction with your assets
---

## Overview

The collins API has two nice features. First, it is as RESTful as it could be
without being an ass. Status codes are used to indicate what happened
uniformly, appropriate HTTP methods (PUT, GET, etc) for each endpoint,
plural/singular endpoints as you would expect, etc. Second, you can request
the output for any API endpoint as plain text, JSON, or bash (sh compatible).
Basic auth is used for HTTP authentication, and curl is an adequate client
interface as long as you're inclined.

## API Conventions

Common conventions include:

 * Basic auth is used for all HTTP endpoints
 * PUT creates a resource
 * POST modifies a resource
 * Appropriate response codes are leveraged including
   * 200 - Normal operation, expect this
   * 201 - Resource created, all PUT calls should return this on success
   * 400 - Bad input found, modify your request and try again
   * 404 - Resource not found
   * 405 - Unsupported HTTP method
   * 500 - Something went wrong that should be looked at
 * Use the `Accept` header to specify the output you need, one of:
   * `text/plain` - Text output
   * `application/json` - JSON output
   * `text/x-shellscript` - Bash compatible output
 * The JSON format is the best to use. The bash compatible format has been tested for most endpoints. The text format should be considered informational.
 * The default output format is JSON, the default input format is plain old HTTP parameters.
 * You can create and modify resources using both plain HTTP query parameters, or using a JSON encoded message body. If you use JSON, specify the `Content-Type` header to be `application/json`.
 * Paginated results include both headers, as well as values. Headers are:
   * X-Pagination-PreviousPage
   * X-Pagination-CurrentPage
   * X-Pagination-NextPage
   * X-Pagination-TotalResults
 * The JSON output of a paginated result set includes an object with a key `Pagination`, and a value that is an object containing the keys `PreviousPage`, `CurrentPage`, `NextPage`, `Total Results`.

## Documentation Conventions

If a URI contains a colon (:) followed by text, this is a required part of the URI. This is
typically used for specifying the resource you are interacting with.
