---
permalink: logapi.html
title: The Asset Log API
layout: post
desc: Create and query log data
---

# Asset Log API

**A note about log message types.**

We use the following definitions for message types, based on syslog.

 * `EMERGENCY` - A "panic" condition - notify all tech staff on call? (earthquake? tornado?) - affects multiple apps/servers/sites...
 * `ALERT` - Should be corrected immediately - notify staff who can fix the problem - example is loss of backup ISP connection
 * `CRITICAL` - Should be corrected immediately, but indicates failure in a primary system - fix CRITICAL problems before ALERT - example is loss of primary ISP connection
 * `ERROR` - Non-urgent failures - these should be relayed to developers or admins; each item must be resolved within a given time
 * `WARNING` - Warning messages - not an error, but indication that an error will occur if action is not taken, e.g. file system 85% full - each item must be resolved within a given time
 * `NOTICE` - Events that are unusual but not error conditions - might be summarized in an email to developers or admins to spot potential problems - no immediate action required
 * `INFORMATIONAL` - Normal operational messages - may be harvested for reporting, measuring throughput, etc - no action required
 * `DEBUG` - Info useful to developers for debugging the application, not useful during operations

## Log Creation

`PUT /api/asset/:tag/log`

Create a new log entry for the specified asset.

### Parameters

 * `tag` - string, required.
 * `message` - string, required.
 * `type` - string, optional, default is INFORMATIONAL. Other valid values are EMERGENCY, ALERT, CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, NOTICE and DEBUG.

It is also possible to specify this as the body of the PUT request, with a `Content-Type` header of `application/json`. In this case, the body is a JSON encoded object with the keys `Message` (arbitrary JSON value) and `Type` (one of the strings specified above).

### Response

Valid response codes are 201 (log entry created), 400 (input had errors), 404 (asset not found).

Response should contain a key (Success) with a boolean value. On error, an `ERROR_DETAILS` key will contain a string with the details.

## Log Query

`GET /api/asset/:tag/logs`

Get the logs for an asset.

### Parameters

 * `tag` - string, required.
 * `page` - integer, optional, defaults to 0. Which page you want.
 * `size` - integer, optional, defaults to 10. Number of results to return.
 * `sort` - string, optional, defaults to DESC. Valid values are "ASC" or "DESC".
 * `filter` - string, optional, defaults to no filter. Valid values are EMERGENCY, ALERT, CRITICAL, ERROR, WARNING, NOTICE, INFORMATIONAL and DEBUG. You can only filter on log type.

A filter specifies the log type you are interested in. Alternatively, you can exclude a particular type by prefixing your type with a `!`, e.g. `!DEBUG` would show only log types that are not debug messages.

### Response

Valid response codes are 200 (Ok) or 404 (asset not found). Note that this API endpoint isn't quite as useful when using a non-JSON output format.

Response headers include:

 * X-Pagination-PreviousPage - CurrentPage - 1 (or 0 if first page)
 * X-Pagination-CurrentPage - The page of the result set, given the specified size
 * X-Pagination-NextPage - CurrentPage + 1 (or CurrentPage if on last page)
 * X-Pagination-TotalResults - Total number of results, not accounting for page/size parameters.

The response body contains a JSON array with a Pagination key and a Data key. The Pagination key has a JSON object as a value with the keys: PreviousPage, CurrentPage, NextPage and TotalResults.
