---
permalink: tags.html
title: Tag Usage and Conventions
layout: post
desc: What tags are in use for what purposes
---

The flexible nature of the key/value approach to Collins dictates that
agreed upon convention is required.

# Collins Tags

Below is a list of tags used in collins and their intended purpose. This document is broken out into 3 sections: Managed, Automated and Unmanaged. All tags can be queried against.

Managed tags can not be changed, updated or deleted by a user. This is enforced in the software. These values are typically set during host intake, and can only be set/changed by the intake process. A machine can only go through intake if it is 'Incomplete'. If you need to populate hardware/networking data for a machine, you will have to set the status to 'Incomplete' to do so.

Automated tags are values not explicitly managed by collins, but as a part of an automated process outside of collins. In general, this should not by set/unset by a user.

Unmanaged tags are user tags and set by a user via some api interaction (most likely), but probably on a manual basis. In some cases these may be part of an automated process, but have been left as unmanaged as not all modifications to these are managed in a purely automated way.

Below the tags have been broken out into the above categories, and a bit of description has been applied to each. Please do your best to keep this list up to date.

# Managed

Most hardware information is gleaned from LSHW and most networking information is taken from LLDP. The usefulness of the hardware information is dependent on the version of LSHW (recent versions get better information). The LLDP information in SoftLayer is entirely faked by converting the output from `ifconfig` to an LLDP compatible format.

Managed tags have the notion of a group. A group is an integer that says that this set of tags are all associated with each other. For example, say you have two memory sticks and we're tracking a description and size for each stick. Collins will create two 'groups', one that represents each memory stick. This is how collins differentiates between the same tag being used multiple times for the same asset.

We denote tags that leverage the notion of a group below by the 'multi-valued' notation. If a tag is not multi-valued there should in general only be one of these values per asset. More examples below.

## General asset information

All of these are specified as HTTP parameters during the intake process. These are not inferred, but specified.

 * `SERVICE_TAG` - String. Vendor service tag (e.g. dell tag)
 * `CHASSIS_TAG` - String. Manufacturer serial number
 * `RACK_POSITION` - String. Position in the rack
 * `POWER_PORT` - String. The port on the PDU in use (multi-valued)
 * `SWITCH_PORT` - String. The port on the switch in use (multi-valued)

## CPU Information

We assume that each CPU is identical so only record one group per tag. We create the visual hardware representation based on the `CPU_COUNT`. This information is taken from LSHW.

 * `CPU_COUNT` - Integer. Physical CPU count in machine
 * `CPU_CORES` - Integer. Number of cores per physical CPU
 * `CPU_THREADS` - Integer. Number of threads per core
 * `CPU_SPEED_GHZ` - Float. Speed of CPU
 * `CPU_DESCRIPTION` - String. Vendor description

## Memory Information

We store a group for each RAM stick that an asset has. A group consists of the vendor description and the size in bytes. We assemble the visual representation of the memory layout based on the group id of each RAM stick (representing a populated bank), and empty banks show as empty. This information is taken from LSHW.

 * `MEMORY_SIZE_BYTES` - Long. Size of single RAM module (multi-valued)
 * `MEMORY_DESCRIPTION` - String. Vendor description (multi-valued)
 * `MEMORY_SIZE_TOTAL` - Long. Total number of bytes (`SIZE_BYTES` `*` number of modules)
 * `MEMORY_BANKS_TOTAL` - Integer. Total number of ram banks

## Network Information

We store a group (speed, mac address, vendor description) for each physical NIC found in the machine. This information is taken from LSHW. Address information is only reported accurately if the machine is already running.

 * `NIC_SPEED` - Long. Speed in bits per second (multi-valued)
 * `MAC_ADDRESS` - String. Mac address (multi-valued)
 * `NIC_DESCRIPTION` - String. Vendor description (multi-valued)

## Network Address Information

This information is better documented in the IP management API doc. You can query by the below tags but can not set or delete these via the standard tag/asset API's. These can only be managed using the IP management API.

 * `IP_ADDRESS` - String. Dotted quad notation. Note that you can supply partial addresses to look for all hosts on a subnet (e.g. '10.10' will give you hosts on the '10.10' network. Although this is a string value, internally this is represented as a long. It is not possible to search for an IP address using a regular expression.

## Disk Information

We store a group (size, type, description) for each physical disk found including CD-ROM's and PCIe flash. This information is taken from LSHW.

 * `DISK_SIZE_BYTES` - Long. Size in bytes of disk. This will occasionally report as 0 when the disk is part of a RAID group, or in the case of a CD-ROM. The number of physical disks and storage total will still be accurate in this case. (multi-valued)
 * `DISK_TYPE` - Enum. Type of disk. IDE, SCSI, PCIe, or CD-ROM. (multi-valued)
 * `DISK_DESCRIPTION` - String. Vendor description. (multi-valued)
 * `DISK_STORAGE_TOTAL` - String. Sum of size for all disks.

## LLDP Information

We store a group (all values below) for each connected network interface. This information is taken from LLDP. This information is pretty much useless in Softlayer since LLDP isn't supported there. It is populated to allow for successful intake. The MAC addresses reflect local interface MAC addresses and the interface names reflect interfaces found on the host, the remaining data  is static.

 * `LLDP_INTERFACE_NAME`
 * `LLDP_CHASSIS_NAME`
 * `LLDP_CHASSIS_ID_TYPE`
 * `LLDP_CHASSIS_ID_VALUE`
 * `LLDP_CHASSIS_DESCRIPTION`
 * `LLDP_PORT_ID_TYPE`
 * `LLDP_PORT_ID_VALUE`
 * `LLDP_PORT_DESCRIPTION`
 * `LLDP_VLAN_ID`
 * `LLDP_VLAN_NAME`

# Automated

Automated data is the result of some automated process likely sitting outside of collins. I've tried to document what data comes from where.

 * `HOSTNAME` - String. Populated when intake is run using the collins ruby library (mostly for already online hosts), or when a machine is successfully provisioned (the provisioner sets this).
 * `NODECLASS` - String. Populated by the provisioner process on successful provisioning. This is used by the new puppet master to resolve the nodeclass for a host.
 * `CANCEL_TICKET` - Long. Populated by the collins 'cancel' plugin. Comes from the SL API after a server is cancelled (will also populate with existing value if already cancelled).
 * `SYSTEM_USERNAME` - String. Populated by the reconciler (if wrong). Since this may be needed by the provisioner, if it is not yet set and you provision a host, the provisioner will query softlayer for the information.
 * `SYSTEM_PASSWORD` - String. Same as for `SYSTEM_USERNAME`.
 * `DATACENTER_NAME` - Enum. D1 or D2. Populated from softlayer by reconciler.
 * `SYSTEM_COST` - Integer. Populated from softlayer by reconciler.
 * `POWER_STATUS` - String. Populated by decommissioner. Manages state of decommission.

## Software Specifics 

 * `SHA` - String. Legacy?
 * `TUMBLR_SHA` - String. Deployed SHA for the tumblr repo.
 * `CONFIG_SHA` - String. Deployed SHA for the config repo.
 * `CREDENTIALS_SHA` - String. Deployed SHA for the credentials repo.

# Unmanaged

Unmanaged tags are ones populated outside of any consistent system.

## Basics

 * `NOTE` - String. This is single valued, so holds only one note. I use this for kind of like 'hey, read me'. This is for transient things, like communicating the current state of a host. Logs can not be deleted, this attribute can.
 * `TEST` - Whatever. I use this for testing sometimes. I almost always delete this too.

## Asset Roles

`PRIMARY_ROLE` and `POOL` are primarily used for resolving what hosts do. Ideally these should actually be completely automated, but this automation has been inconsistent.

### Primary Role

Primary role is a pseudo enum. This is a very high level role of the host. These include.

 * `BASTION` 
 * `CACHE`
 * `DATABASE`
 * `DEVEL`
 * `HADOOP`
 * `INFRA`
 * `MAIL`
 * `MYSQL_POOL` - Config only
 * `PROXY`
 * `SEARCH`
 * `SERVICE`
 * `TUMBLR_APP`
 * `WEBOPS`

### Pool

Pool is also a pseudo-enum. Most assets with a primary role can be grouped into a pool (dashboard pool, memcache performance pool, ira, etc). There are 100 of these, mostly used for databases.

### Secondary Role

Secondary role is primarily used for tracking deploy related groups (web-a, web-b, etc) as well as database roles (master, slave, backup, etc). This is application specific, and new ones can be introduced at any time.

 * `WEB_A`
 * `WEB_B`
 * `ALL`
 * `MASTER`
 * `ACTIVE_SLAVE`
 * `STANDBY_SLAVE`
 * `BACKUP_SLAVE`
 * `Parmesan`
 * `Gob`
 * `SMTP`
 * `GEARMAN`
 * `namenode`
 * `datanode`
