---
permalink: introduction.html
title: Introduction
layout: post
desc: Basic Concepts
---

Collins only knows about 4 things:

 * Assets
 * Asset meta data (key/value pairs)
 * Asset logs
 * IP Addresses

But! Being so simple, collins is a fairly powerful tool.

## Assets

Assets only have 3 real attributes on them (that are meaningful). A tag, status and a type.

 * `tag` - The tag is a unique, immutable, alphanumeric sequence of characters associated with the asset. These are arbitrary but all API references that are asset specific require that tag.
 * `status` - Described in the asset lifecycle section, indicates the current status of the asset.
 * `type` - Current supported types include: Configuration, Data Center, Power Circuit, Power Strip, Rack, Router, Server Node and Switch. Of primary interest to most users will be server nodes and configurations.

New asset types are easy to create. New status types are less easy to create but in production we have found the available variety to be enough.

### Asset Status

The lifecycle of an asset is described in terms of its status. The status reflected below primarily describes what each of these mean to a server node. A non-physical asset type such as a configuration may only ever be allocated or decommissioned for instance.

 * `Incomplete` - Spare pool host that isn't online but can be requested
 * `New` - Host that has been activated out of the spare pool and is awaiting activation
 * `Unallocated` - Host that is activated, and can be used
 * `Provisioning` - Host that is in the process of being provisioned
 * `Provisioned` - Provisioning process has completed. Awaiting final automated verification.
 * `Allocated` - Someone is using this, for production or otherwise.
 * `Cancelled` - Server is no longer needed, awaiting decommissioning.
 * `Decommissioned` - Server has gone through out take process
 * `Maintenance` - Server is undergoing some kind of maintenance

Note that nearly 100% of the transitions between states are driven by automated processes. In general, a user should never change a status via the API or other means. In fact, the UI only allows you to change the status by
taking some action such as cancelling an asset or putting an asset into maintenance mode.

## Meta Data, Tags, etc

Asset tags (**not** the tag of an asset, but the key/values associated with an asset) are what provide most of the flexibility within collins.
If you set a new key/value (here forward called a tag or tag value) on an asset and that tag does not yet exist, it is created on the fly and
available to query on. If you set a new tag value on an asset, in most cases the old value will be overwritten and that change (along with the
user responsible for it) will be left in the audit log for that asset. It is also possible to delete a tag from being associated with a particular
asset.

Tags fall into 3 categories. Managed tags, automated tags, and unmanaged tags.

Managed tags are tags that are not user managable (such as CPU speed). These tags can only be set or changed during certain lifecycle
events, such as the server intake process.

Automated tags are tags that are managed by external automated processes such as server provisioning. Although these can technically be set/changed by users via the API,
convention dictates that they should not be.

Unmanaged tags are tags that are only set by users. These are typically used for notes, links, testing, etc.

Much more detail, along with which tags are in use, is documented in more depth [here](tags.html)

## Logs

Each asset has logs that record lifecycle events such as who requested provisioning or maintenance, when tags were changed and what from and to, etc. You can search
logs via the API, it is also presented in the UI on an asset by asset basis.

Log levels are based on syslog and include the following:

 * `EMERGENCY` - A "panic" condition - notify all tech staff on call? (earthquake? tornado?) - affects multiple apps/servers/sites...
 * `ALERT` - Should be corrected immediately - notify staff who can fix the problem - example is loss of backup ISP connection
 * `CRITICAL` - Should be corrected immediately, but indicates failure in a primary system - fix CRITICAL problems before ALERT - example is loss of primary ISP connection
 * `ERROR` - Non-urgent failures - these should be relayed to developers or admins; each item must be resolved within a given time
 * `WARNING` - Warning messages - not an error, but indication that an error will occur if action is not taken, e.g. file system 85% full - each item must be resolved within a given time
 * `NOTICE` - Events that are unusual but not error conditions - might be summarized in an email to developers or admins to spot potential problems - no immediate action required
 * `INFORMATIONAL` - Normal operational messages - may be harvested for reporting, measuring throughput, etc - no action required
 * `DEBUG` - Info useful to developers for debugging the application, not useful during operations

The log query interface provides methods for searching for logs of particular types on assets or globally.

## Addresses

Collins does a bad job managing IP address allocation for IPMI addresses. You can either specify the IPMI address information for a particular asset, or allow collins
to generate the address information from a pool of predefined addresses.
