---
permalink: cql.html
title: Collins Query Language
layout: post
desc: Syntax and Usage
---

## Overview

Collins Query Language is a new feature in Collins for performing advanced
searches on assets using a DSL similar to the WHERE clause of a typical SQL
statement.  This feature currently exists totally independantly of the other
search functions, but will likely replace all asset searching in the near
future.

###Getting started

Collins uses Solr as the backend search engine.  It can either use an external
running instance of Solr or launch its own embedded Server (version 3.6.1).  A
barebones Solr config and schema is included with Collins in conf/solr.  

Here are the collins config settings

    solr.enabled = true
    solr.repopulateOnStartup = false
    solr.useEmbeddedServer = false
    solr.externalUrl="http://localhost:8983/solr"
    solr.embeddedSolrHome = "/Users/dan/projects/platform_b/collins/conf/solr"

externalUrl is only required if using an external server, and likewise
embeddedSolrHome is only required when using an embedded server

If using an external solr instance, it should be launched with the following setting

    -Dsolr.solr.home=/PATH_TO_COLLINS/conf/solr/

Solr 3.6.0 can be downloaded here: http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi/lucene/solr

NOTE!!! - When running collins in dev mode within Play/SBT, setting
repopulateOnStartup to true will cause Collins to begin reloading on every page load.
This appears to be due to some side effect caused by the apache httpclient when
called from within a plugins onStart method.  To populate Solr in dev mode,
instead set repopulateOnStartup to false and after starting collins navigate to
/admin/solr in the web app.  

## Syntax

### Key/values

Any primary value (tag, status, type, etc.) or attribute can be searched on

- key names are case insensitive
- any string values that are one word don't need quotes
- wildcards are supported at the beginning and/or end of string values

Some example queries:

    tag = "test1"
    tag = test1
    tag = test*
    tag = *1
    TAG = test1

All keys are typed (although most are still defaulting to string)

    total_disk_size = 12345 //ok
    total_disk_size = foobar //error

### Keys with Enumerated values
TYPE and STATUS only accept certain values (case insensitive)

    TYPE = SERVER_NODE //ok
    TyPe = SeRvEr_nOdE //ok
    TYPE = FOO //not ok

### Ranges

All values support ranges

    CPU_CORES = [4,8]
    CPU_CORES = [*,10]
    TAG = ["foo","foz"]

### Logical Operators

CQL allows for queries that consist of arbirary boolean expressions on asset data.

    IP_ADDRESS = 192.168.* OR IP_ADDRESS = 10.60.*
    
    TYPE = SERVER_NODE AND NOT TAG = foo-*
    
    STATUS = UNALLOCATED OR (STATUS = ALLOCATED AND IP_ADDRESS = 192.168.*)

To find assets that don't have a certain attribute set, simply do

    NOT attribute = *
    
Order of operations is standard for boolean expressions

    NOT foo = bar AND bar = baz OR bar = asdf  <--> ((NOT foo = bar) AND bar = baz) OR bar = asdf

### Other details

- Any key can be used to sort results, using the --sort_field option
- When a new attribute is created on-demand, its type defaults to String.  
- There is a special "KEYS" attribute that simply contains all of the keys set
  on the asset.  Can be useful for doing wildcard searches on key names

## Using CQL 

### How to make CQL queries in collins_shell

    collin_shell asset find --selector='query:"status = unallocated AND ip_address = [192.168.1.1, 192.168.1.100]"' 

### In the web app

There's currently no form for inputting a query in the web app, but the url endpoint is

    http://collinsurl/solrsearch?query=urlencodedquery

## Known Issues

- Multi-collins CQL searching not implemented yet
- single quote marks not supported
- dates must be in ISO 8601 format (support for more formats on the way)
- pagination doesn't work in the web view
