---
permalink: addressapi.html
title: The IP Management API
layout: post
desc: Manage and query IP addresses
---

# IP Management API

This API is used for creating, updating, deleting and finding IP addresses. It
is also possible to use `IP_ADDRESS` as a parameter to the asset finder
endpoint. Note that where pool is referenced, it can be 'default' or empty and
will mean the same thing.

## Allocate Addresses

`PUT /api/asset/:tag/address`

Create one or more addresses in a pool.

### Parameters

 * `tag` - string, required. Tag of asset to allocate for.
 * `count` - int, optional. Number of addresses to allocate. Must be between 1 and 10, defaults to 1.
 * `pool` - string, optional. The pool to allocate from. Values that are acceptable here depend on what address pool have been configured but common values would be none/empy (default pool), public (publicly routable IP address), backend (private addresses used for backend connectivity) or management (private addresses used for management connectivity)
 
**NOTE** By default no pools are configured. Whoever setup the collins instance must tell you what pools are available for allocation.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 201 (address created), 400 (invalid
pool or no pool specified), 404 (invalid asset specified).

Response should contain an `ADDRESSES` key with an array of objects
as the value. Every address object has the following keys: `ID`,
`ASSET_ID`, `ADDRESS`, `GATEWAY`, `NETMASK` and `POOL`. `ID` and
`ASSET_ID` are numbers while `ADDRESS`, `GATEWAY` and `NETMASK` are
dotted representations. `POOL` is a string that may be empty but will not be
null.

## Update Addresses

`POST /api/asset/:tag/address`

Update IP address information.

**NOTE** If all address information is supplied (address, gateway and
netmask), but no `old_address` is specified, we will attempt to create an
address.

For all intents and purposes you should consider the current IP address and
the asset tag to be the unique identifier for an address.

### Parameters

 * `tag` - string, required. Asset associated with the address.
 * `old_address` - string, optional for creating an address and required for updating an address.
 * `address` - string, optional for update and required for create.
 * `gateway` - string, optional for update and required for create.
 * `netmask` - string, optional for update and required for create.
 * `pool` - string, optional for update and required for create.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 200 (address was updated), 201 (address was created), 400 (invalid parameters), 404 (asset does not exist).

On success you will get back a status response which includes a SUCCESS key
and a boolean value indicating the status of the operation.

## Delete Addresses

`DELETE /api/asset/:tag/addresses`

Delete all addresses associated with a given tag.

### Parameters

 * `pool` - string, optional. The pool to restrict the deletion to.
 * `tag` - string, required. Asset tag you want to delete addresses for.

If no pool is specified, all addresses are deleted.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 200 (addresses were deleted), 404 (asset not valid).

The response will have a `DELETED` key with a numeric value indicating the
number of addresses that were deleted.

## Addresses of an Asset

`GET /api/asset/:tag/addresses`

Return all addresses (in same format as the create) for a given asset.

### Parameters

 * `tag` - string, required. Asset tag you want to know the addresses for.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 200 or 404 (no such asset).

The response format is the same as that of the create call.

## Pools in Use

`GET /api/address/pools`

Return the name of all pools that are in use.

### Parameters

None

### Responses

The only valid response code is 200. This will include a list of strings.

## Asset of an Address

`GET /api/asset/with/address/:address`

Get the asset associated with a specific address.

### Parameters

 * `address` - string, required. The fully qualified address that you want to know which asset is associated with it.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 200 or 404 (no such address). The response format is
the same as for the asset finder.

## Assets in a pool

`GET /api/assets/with/addresses/in/:pool`

Get the assets allocated in a specific pool.

### Parameters

 * `pool` - string, required. The pool you want to find assets in.

Use 'default' if you want the assets in the default pool.

### Responses

Valid response codes are 200 or 404 (no such pool). The response format is the
same as for the asset finder.
